That was the catalog we did for the exhibition.
I'm going to write it down.
Just take that one.
Oh, that's great.
Thank you.
That tells in the beginning a little bit of what I've been telling you.
Well, let me tell you, this is some collection.
It's an unusual collection in that it combines aspects of a private collection with
a bookseller's expertise.
The problem with many private collections is the collector.
They don't know anything.
I mean, booksellers know a lot more about rare books than collectors do.
And this has always been treated by me as sort of my collection, so I'm very fussy about it.
I mean, books are in fabulous condition.
I'm quite stingy.
I won't ever pay for it.
But over 30 years, we've found a lot of stuff, and this is absolutely beautiful.
Do you mind if I give him a call?
Oh, no, he'll love it, sure.
And I'll explain this.
How would I get in touch with him?
I'll give you his phone number.
He'll give me him a call.
Come on, this is nice.
How do we spell Chai's name?
W-A-C-H-S.
The thing is, I haven't heard of this collection since—that was just—I just got into the Gorgia Club last year, so I missed this by eight years.
Well, I mean, I don't know if Jared goes very often, but you might run into it.
Yeah, but I mean, I would have probably seen the exhibition, too, you know?
Well, it was done for the January Disney Graphical Society Week.
Okay, and we just went to this 97 one.
Yeah, I think it was 95.
Yeah.
And that's his—
And that's his lawyer.
496-0005.
Yeah, you could definitely call.
Yeah, no problem.
You could talk about, you know.
I mean, it's a stunning call.
I mean, this is worth a million pounds now.
And does he take pride in it as a... He'll talk to him.
He sure does.
I mean, he's more keen on it now than on it.
Because he knows what it is.
Do you think he's keen on it because of the value aspect of it?
Or do you think he has a sense of... No, actually.
I think the value... Any collector who tells you he's not interested in the value is either the dupe of Devonshire.
He doesn't focus on the real world or his lie.
I mean, now, of course you're interested in the value.
Well, it shows that you're not stupid, too.
I mean, it shows that you haven't wasted your money.
Yeah.
I mean, I...
Generally speaking, money has come to do with it.
It's not the whole thing.
It's horrible.
So you take a proprietary view to this collection?
Oh, yeah, yeah, definitely.
And I've had other experiences like this.
This is the most dramatic one, but to show you how one thing leads to another, one of Jerry's investment advisors.
The guy sort of did real estate deals and so on.
The kind of person who takes doctors' money.
Jerry's friend Marty saw his collection, and I got to know Marty.
And Marty had a sort of collector's mentality and was definitely interested in money.
But Marty's also no fool either.
He was more educated.
He got a degree in philosophy.
He had a year at Oxford at studying philosophy.
And now he's a sort of realer dealer in investment funds and so on.
He said, you know, I want some philosophy books.
So I started buying and selling things, Hume and John Locke.
various things like that, and he began to build up a little collection.
He wasn't quite as fanatic about it, but he began to get more interested.
At one point he was in the office, and he's also very interested in Jewish stuff.
He's involved in Israel and politics, anything Jewish.
He saw on the shelf, I had a row of books by Voltaire, which was then of developing interest in my, from a sort of book collecting.
It was a graphical standpoint.
And it was a title of a book, Attacking Voltaire, but it had something about the Jews in the title.
He said, what's that?
And I explained to him that it was part of his Voltaire collection.
Voltaire being sort of a philosopher.
That was somebody he knew about.
And he said, what are you doing?
And I said, you know, I'm just buying Voltaire now because I think this is really interesting and booksellers don't know about Voltaire because it's too complicated.
And so he said, well, sell that book to me.
I said, no, I'm not going to sell it.
It's part of the collection.
I said, if you want it, you have to buy it all the collection, which wasn't that big at the time that
He mulled it over for a while as the collection was getting bigger and finally said, okay, I'll take the Voltaire collection.
So I sold him the whole thing.
I said, you can buy it.
On one condition, you let me keep going.
Well, that was about eight years ago, I says, and it's gotten big now.
Voltaire, Rousseau, and Diderot, but mostly Voltaire, but it's 400 titles now.
So you get to collect for yourself, really.
Yeah, he's just a custodian.
But he said, he's making a lot of money now.
So that aspect of it doesn't bother him, but he said, you know, I don't have room for Voltaire anymore.
So we're in the process now of trying to negotiate the sale of this collection on block.
to the New York Public Library because Leclerc, who took over there, is a Voltaire scholar.
He went to St.
Petersburg just to see Voltaire's library.
That's right.
Paul has discovered that the New York Public Library's Voltaire holdings are embarrassing.
For some reason, their 18th century French holdings are minimal.
They have nothing.
So I think this is working now.
He and Marty are now working out the tax consequences and so on.
But sometime this year, with any block, this collection will be transferred into the New York public.
And then Marty will have a lot of money to spend on philosophy books.
Is Marty somebody I know?
Maybe you're assuming that Tony right now?
Because this deal is in the works, I think I won't get you involved with him.
Jerry will do.
Okay, good.
Well, when the thing is classified, I'll find out about it anyway.
Yeah, let's keep your fingers crossed.
I think it is going to happen, actually, because Leclerc said, it's just a sort of mummy.
But the deal is, and I hope they stick to it, is that
New York Public can only have that collection if they let me keep going on it.
But you're going to keep building it even after... Well, LeClerc says that he has, you know, money is tight around the New York Public and he's trying to raise money.
That's a problem for suddenly buying a collection, especially his own particular subject.
I think he feels a little leery about doing that.
But he has some discretionary funds that
as the president.
So I said, it doesn't have to be a lot of money, just keep me interested.
So he said he could find $25,000 a year to add to the collection.
I said, great.
But the rule is that I have to buy the books.
Just don't you buy them.
Let me do it.
And so...
I mean, I said, you can stop this arrangement any time you want, obviously, if you don't like it.
It's not a contract.
But, you know, just a gentleman's agreement.
Let's see how it goes.
Let me keep going on it.
But you're certainly happy to see the collection is going to stay together as a collection.
Yeah, kind of.
I don't even care that much.
But how about the poetry collection?
That'll be sold.
some day.
I mean, we've talked about that actually.
I mean, Gary doesn't really... He says, I mean, he's in the process of a divorce now.
Unfortunately, his wife doesn't... She doesn't want to split the collection up.
So what they've agreed is that the collection will stay intact.
If it's ever sold, she will own half of them.
But they say now, both of them, that
it'll go to the children.
I think that's probably... A couple of his kids say they're interested, and may actually be interested, but... They'll sell it.
They'll sell it, because the taxes will be too much.
You know, if they suddenly have to write a check for half a million dollars, estate tax, they'll sell it.
And they have to like books, too.
Well, I can see his son sort of is interested.
He might like it, but...
But a million dollars might be more interesting.
Yeah, and by that time, you know, it can be many millions.
I don't know.
I suspect it'll be sold.
I hope it will be sold by another bookseller, not just thrown into an auction.
But, you know, I probably won't be around until I can.
I mean, I spent some auction of butchers
the way they do my collections now anyway.
I'm not a great fan of the auction catalogs.
But I don't mind that it's dispersed.
It's catalogued.
I mean, one of the things I've done with these collections, I mean, every book in Jerry's collection is fully catalogued by me.
And we keep a file very quick.
For the Voltaire collection, because the interest there was very much bibliographical as well as intellectual, I've done these very complicated descriptions of them.
There's a sheet for every book in the Voltaire collection with very complete collations and so on.
And one of the things I said to Luke Burke when I was first talking to him about this is that this, you know, I thought this was interesting to do.
And he looked at what I'd been doing and I think was quite impressed by that.
You know, this was not just a casual selection.
I think that's where we put a lot of ground.
Have you heard of a guy around London, Jack Lundzer?
Have you ever heard of a collector of them that's collecting all this Jewish stuff?
Lundzer.
Lundzer, no big diamond, African.
He's supposed to have a war.
He's got like his own museum here at London.
Lundzer.
W-N-Z-E-R.
The only one from the diamond business I know as a collector is Harry Oppenheimer.
He's got a great collection.
Did you have to go to South Africa for that?
So this collection is just kind of Jewish, Hebraica.
Yeah, because that's not a subject I've ever done anything with.
So, you know, I could easily not.
I think it's very, very quiet, mysterious, reclusive.
Oh, right.
It has like his own museum right here in London.
Well, it's possible.
Do you ever collect anything?
Oh, yeah.
What do you think?
What I mean, certainly.
But the books that support my...